---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudcix_network_router Resource - cloudcix"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# cloudcix_network_router (Resource)



## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cloudcix_network_router" "example_network_router" {
  project_id = 1
  metadata = {
    destination = "destination"
    nat = true
    nexthop = "nexthop"
  }
  name = "Public Website Router"
  networks = [{
    ipv4 = "10.0.1.0/24"
    name = "web-tier"
  }, {
    ipv4 = "10.0.2.0/24"
    name = "app-tier"
  }, {
    ipv4 = "10.0.3.0/24"
    name = "db-tier"
  }]
  type = "router"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the User's Project into which this Network Router should be added.

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) Required if type is "static_route".

Metadata for the Static Route resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name for the Network Router.  If not sent and the type is "router", it will default to
the name 'Router'. If not sent and the type is "static_route", it will default to the name 'Static Route'.
- `networks` (Attributes List) Option if type is "router". If not sent, defaults will be applied.

An array of the list of networks defined on the Router. To create a new network on the Network
Router, append an object to the list with an `ipv4` key for an available RFC 1918 address range. The `ipv6`
and `vlan` values will be generated based on what is available in the region. If networks is not sent, the
default address range 10.0.0.1/24 will be assigned to `ipv4`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networks))
- `state` (String) Change the state of the Network Router, triggering the CloudCIX Robot to perform the requested action.

Available state transitions:

From running state, you can transition to:
- update_running - Apply pending configuration changes while keeping the router operational
- delete - Mark the router for deletion (requires all other project resources to be deleted first)

From delete_queue state, you can transition to:
- restart - Restore a router that was previously marked for deletion

Note: To delete a router, all other resources in the project must first be in one of these states:
delete, delete_queue, or deleting.
- `type` (String) The type of Network Router to create. Valid options are:
- "router"
 A virtual route that manages IP forwarding, and participate in routing decisions
 for the Project.
- "static_route"
  Maps a destination network to a nexthop IP, enabling deterministic packet forwarding.

### Read-Only

- `content` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content))
- `id` (Number) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Optional:

- `destination` (String) CIDR notation of the destination address range of the target network of the static route.

Note:
- The sent address range cannot overlap with the destination of other Static Routes in the same
  Project.
- The sent address range can overlap with the networks configured on the Router in the Project.
- The sent address range cannot overlap with the "remote_ts" of Network VPNs in the same Project.
- `nat` (Boolean) Flag indicating if traffic from the destination can be routed to the Public internet via the
Project's Router. It will default to False if not sent.
- `nexthop` (String) An IP address from one of the networks configured on the Router in the Project to forward the
packet to.


<a id="nestedatt--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networks`

Optional:

- `ipv4` (String) The IPv4 address range of the network
- `name` (String) The name of the network


<a id="nestedatt--content"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content`

Read-Only:

- `created` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Router Resource record was created.
- `grace_period` (Number) Number of days after a user sets the state of the Router to Scrub (8) before it is executed by robot.
The default value is 7 days for a Router.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the Router Resource record
- `metadata` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--metadata))
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name given to this Router Resource instance
- `networks` (Attributes List) An array of the list of networks defined on the Router (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--networks))
- `project_id` (Number) The id of the Project that this Router Resource belongs to
- `specs` (Attributes List) An array of the specs for the Router Resource (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--specs))
- `state` (String) The current state of the Router Resource
- `type` (String) The type of the Network Router
- `updated` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Router Resource record was last updated.
- `uri` (String) URL that can be used to run methods in the API associated with the Network Routers instance.

<a id="nestedatt--content--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.metadata`

Read-Only:

- `ipv4_address` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv4_address))
- `ipv4_address_id` (Number) The ID of the assigned public IPv4 address for the Router.
- `ipv6_address` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv6_address))
- `ipv6_address_id` (Number) The ID of the assigned public IPv6 address for the Router.

<a id="nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv4_address"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.metadata.ipv4_address`

Read-Only:

- `address` (String) The IP address of the IPAddress record.
- `created` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the IPAddress record was created.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the IPAddress record.
- `name` (String) A verbose name given to the IPAddress record.
- `notes` (String) The note attached to IPAddress that made it.
- `public_ip` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv4_address--public_ip))
- `public_ip_id` (Number) The ID of the Public IPAddress record.
- `subnet_id` (Number) The ID of the Subnet record.
- `updated` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the IPAddress record was last updated.

<a id="nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv4_address--public_ip"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.metadata.ipv4_address.updated`

Read-Only:

- `address` (String) The actual address of the Public IPAddress record.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the Public IPAddress record.



<a id="nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv6_address"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.metadata.ipv6_address`

Read-Only:

- `address` (String) The IP address of the IPAddress record.
- `created` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the IPAddress record was created.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the IPAddress record.
- `name` (String) A verbose name given to the IPAddress record.
- `notes` (String) The note attached to IPAddress that made it.
- `public_ip` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv6_address--public_ip))
- `public_ip_id` (Number) The ID of the Public IPAddress record.
- `subnet_id` (Number) The ID of the Subnet record.
- `updated` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the IPAddress record was last updated.

<a id="nestedatt--content--metadata--ipv6_address--public_ip"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.metadata.ipv6_address.updated`

Read-Only:

- `address` (String) The actual address of the Public IPAddress record.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the Public IPAddress record.




<a id="nestedatt--content--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.networks`

Read-Only:

- `destination` (String) The destination address range of the target network of the static route. Returned if the
type is "static_route".
- `ipv4` (String) The IPv4 address range of the network. Returned if the type is "router".
- `ipv6` (String) The IPv6 address range of the network. Returned if the type is "router".
- `name` (String) The name of the network. Returned if the type is "router".
- `nat` (Boolean) Flag indicating if traffic from the destination can route to the Public internet. Returned if
the type is "static_route".
- `nexthop` (String) An IP address from one of the networks configured on the Router in the Project to forward the
packet to. Returned if the type is "static_route".
- `vlan` (Number) The VLAN ID of the network. Returned if the type is "router".


<a id="nestedatt--content--specs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `content.specs`

Read-Only:

- `quantity` (Number) How many units of a billable entity that a Resource utilises
- `sku_name` (String) An identifier for a billable entity that a Resource utilises
